I'm on my way to the west of the island
where a few small patches of that
ancient forest still remain these
strange beautiful trees baobabs are fire
resistant and too big to cut down so in
many places they are the only remnants
left of the original forest that once
covered this land it would have been
difficult for a creature the size of an
elephant bird to live without vegetation
of some kind and today even the smallest
of animals are struggling to survive
here one of those that have managed to
do so is the tiniest of all known lemurs
it's called Madame Burt's mouse lemur
and it was only discovered 10 years ago
Melanie damn hon is part of a team of
scientists who are studying the animal
trying to work out how to protect it
Oh Janey tiny tiny tiny just only 30
grand bodyweight yeah small farmer
smallest primate in the world
big eyes small ears big eyes yep and a
wet nose yeah Melanie and her colleagues
catch these lemurs and tag them to build
up a picture of their behavior essential
knowledge if they're to be properly
protected and how long will he have been
in a few hours but also we collect him
at night young who stays in camp and
sleeps in there and and in releasing me
and you caught him how many time maybe
around 20 so he's a couple years he's
accustomed to it and do their travel
very far they travel very far they have
only three hectare so that's quite a bit
fun any more like that yeah they might
even run like five kilometres a night
really yeah an animal like that I think
they're amazing amazing yeah okay let's
see him go
coming come on come on two one
that's it that's it sure the work Ellen
a and her team are doing is vital for
the survival of this little DEMA it's
also revealing just why it is that this
tiny creature lives here and nowhere
else this particular Liana belongs to a
species that only grows in this patch of
forest and on it and on no other kind of
Liana lives this little insight it's a
bargain which feeds by sticking its
mouth parts into the Liana and sucking
out the SAP then digests what it wants
and excretes the rest as honeydew a sort
of sugary liquid and it's that honey to
that sugar that madam bets Dima needs in
its diet so Madame belts lima is only
found in this particular fats of the
forest because for this insect and this
Deana which just shows how complicated
ecological connections can be and how
much you have to know about an animal if
you're really going to conserve it